The President:
Hello and Happy Fourth
of July, everybody.
This weekend is a time to
get together with family and
friends, kick back, and
enjoy a little time off.
And I hope that's exactly
what all of you do.
But I also want to take a moment
today to reflect on what I
believe is the meaning of this
distinctly American holiday.
Today, we're called to remember
not only the day our country was
born -- we're also called to remember the indomitable spirit
of the first American citizens
who made that day possible.
We're called to remember
how unlikely it was that our
American experiment
would succeed at all;
that a small band of patriots
would declare independence from
a powerful empire; and that they
would form, in the new world,
what the old world
had never known --
a government of, by,
and for the people.
That unyielding spirit is
what defines us as Americans.
It's what led generations of
pioneers to blaze a Western trail.
It's what led my grandparents'
generation to persevere in the
face of a Depression and
triumph in the face of tyranny.
It's what led generations of
American workers to build an
industrial economy
unrivalled around the world.
It's what has always
led us, as a people,
not to wilt or cower
at a difficult moment,
but to face down any trial
and rise to any challenge,
understanding that each of us
has a hand in writing America's destiny.
That is the spirit we are
called to show once more.
We're facing an array of
challenges on a scale unseen in our time.
We're waging two wars.
We're battling
a deep recession.
And our economy -- and
our nation itself --
are endangered by festering
problems we've kicked down the
road for far too long:
spiraling health care costs;
inadequate schools; and a
dependence on foreign oil.
Meeting these extraordinary
challenges will require an
extraordinary effort on
the part of every American.
And that's an effort we
cannot defer any longer.
Now is the time to lay a new
foundation for growth and prosperity.
Now's the time to revamp
our education system,
demand more from our teachers,
parents, and students alike,
and build schools that prepare
every child in America to
outcompete any
worker in the world.
Now is the time to reform an
unsustainable health care system
that's imposing crushing
costs on families, businesses,
large and small, as well as
state and federal budgets.
We need to protect what
works, fix what's broken,
and bring down costs
for all Americans.
No more talk.
No more delay.
Health care reform
must happen this year.
And now is the time to meet
our energy challenge --
one of the greatest challenges
we've ever confronted as a
people or as a planet.
For the sake of our
economy and our children,
we must build on the historic
bill passed by the House of
Representatives, and make clean
energy the profitable kind of
energy so that we can end our
dependence on foreign oil and
reclaim America's future.
These are some of the challenges
that our generation has been
called to meet.
And yet, there are those who
would have us try what's
already failed; who would
defend the status quo.
They argue that our health care
system is fine the way it is and
that a clean energy
economy can wait.
They say we're
trying to do too much,
that we're moving too quickly,
and that we all ought to just
take a deep breath and
scale back our goals.
These naysayers
have short memories.
They forget that
we, as a people,
did not get here by standing
pat in a time of change.
We didn't get here by
doing what was easy.
That's not how a cluster of
13 colonies became the United
States of America.
We're not a people
who fear the future.
We're a people who make it.
And on this July 4th, we need to
summon that spirit once more.
We need to summon the same
spirit that inhabited
Independence Hall two hundred
and thirty-three years ago today.
That's how this generation of
Americans will make its mark on history.
That's how we will make the
most of this extraordinary moment.
And that's how we will write
the next great chapter in the
great American story.
Thank you, and happy
Fourth of July.